Lydia: I have noticed that a lot of people
are now understanding the importance
of saying, “someone who's DeafBlind”
instead of just “DeafBlind people.”
It just really helps us
be more integrated into society
and normalizing us as
people first, instead of
just someone who has a disability.
Our disability does not define who we are.
It just happens to be part of us.
We are people first.
[music plays]
Rocky: The Helen Keller National Center
made a major change in language
that took years,
if not decades, to approve.
when you wrote the word DeafBlind
it was a lowercase d
and slash and then lowercase b,
And so it's like deaf slash
blind, essentially.
And I think it was as of August of 2021
when Helen Keller Services
officially adopted
the term “DeafBlind” with no slash,
capital D, capital B, all one word.
Alice: It's not like we're blind first and deaf
second or deaf first and blind...
It doesn't matter.
Those two things live in one body
and I actually have buttons
that say, “yes, I'm deaf and blind,”
so they can see the big “and”
because it's not one or the other,
and one isn't bigger or better.
Having the word be together is a unifier.
Rocky: The other thing too,
that I think can happen
when you start drawing lines
within the DeafBlind community
and even just the blind community, is that
you begin to create this hierarchies.
And I see these a lot in the educational
setting, special education setting,
even somewhat into the workforce
where people who are DeafBlind
are placed on this hierarchy, so to speak.
And I think that's
a very dangerous approach
because what tends to happen is those
who are at the top of the hierarchy
or in the middle don't necessarily
get the same services
as those at the bottom.
One of the things that I have frequently
said is that I'm very fortunate that I'm
someone who is totally blind
because had I not been totally blind,
if I had even tunnel vision, even just,
you know, two degrees of vision,
the odds of my family having to fight
my school district tooth and nail
to ensure that I received braille services
would have increased significantly.
I can't tell you how many hundreds,
if not thousands of stories
I have heard in the blind community
where young children
in the school system or even adults
who are, for all intents and purposes blind
or DeafBlind but have
a small amount of vision
and hearing, are refused
necessary services.
They’re refused an interpreter.
They’re refused the
opportunity to learn braille.
And I think
if we would just recognize that
rather than creating these levels,
we would have a much, much better society
and much more integration
into society for ourselves.
Lydia: Regarding adequate services
for the DeafBlind community based on
a level or degree of DeafBlindness,
I think that's critically important.
In my personal experience being that
I am mostly deaf in my right ear,
but have decent hearing in the left,
I think the degree of my hearing loss or
lack of ability to understand
speech was not fully understood in school,
and as a result
I did not have adequate tools.
For example, I did not have access
to hearing aid technology.
Most of the time when I was in school,
it was just really difficult
for me to hear and to participate.
I also didn't have transcripts
and things like that most of the time.
And so I think that really illustrates
the importance of why,
even though someone
seemingly has, you know
quote good enough hearing or
good enough sight to perform the task
without many modifications
or accommodations,
I think it's really important
to evaluate all available options
because maybe they can do
something but at the same time
what if they can do it
better with a simple tool
such as a hearing aid
that you barely even see in someone’s ear.
And I know a lot of times
there's also the argument that,
“oh well, it's too expensive, or
not enough people are going to benefit,
so why should we provide this service?”
And my counter argument to that would be,
sure, there isn't a
massive DeafBlind population.
Of course the sighted and hearing
population is bigger.
But at the same time,
we as the DeafBlind community
have so much to offer society,
and if we're given the proper tools
to succeed and the proper supports
that we need to thrive,
we can contribute so much to society.
And so I think even though short term
it may seem burdensome to a school,
it may seem burdensome to a school
or a company or a business or what have you,
long term, the benefits
of providing adequate supports
and services
strongly and very much outweigh
any short term burdens they may face.
[music ends]